Hero AI
=======

Hero AI is Swimlane’s collection of artificial intelligence features
that help orchestrators and analysts in their day-to-day usage of
Turbine. Hero AI offers both free and premium features. The premium
features of Hero AI largely take advantage of the Swimlane private large
language model (LLM).

 

The Swimlane LLM is a proprietary LLM hosted by Swimlane and tuned to
our users’ needs. The Swimlane LLM is hosted in Swimlane cloud and
offers a level of security and privacy not available with public models.
Your data never leaves the Swimlane cloud. It is not sent to a third
party, it is not stored in shared log files, and it is not used to train
or fine tune our model.

Free Hero AI Features
---------------------

The two free Hero AI features are our documentation chatbot and our
Python chatbot. The documentation chatbot can answer questions about how
to use Swimlane Turbine, while the Python chatbot can help orchestrators
write custom Python scripts.

-  `Swimlane Help Chatbot <../playbooks/swimlane-help-chatbot.htm>`__

-  `Hero AI Python
   Chatbot <../native-actions/swimlane-python-chatbot.htm>`__

Premium Hero AI Features
------------------------

Premium Hero AI features are licensed for customers who have purchased
Hero AI. These premium features use the Swimlane LLM to offer powerful
and secure generative AI capabilities.

Case Summary and Recommended Actions
------------------------------------

Hero AI can be used with the Case and Incident Management application to
generate plain-text summaries of complicated cases along with steps to
mitigate or re-mediate the issue. For more details on this feature see
`Case and Incident Management
Application. <../marketplace/case-and-incident-management-application.htm>`__

Crafted AI Prompts
------------------

Crafted AI Prompts is a solution extension offered by Swimlane to allow
users to write their own generative AI prompt templates to generate
custom responses. Prompts can be sent to either OpenAI or the Swimlane
LLM. Swimlane recommends only using the Swimlane LLM if you intend to
include sensitive data in your prompts.

Custom AI Prompts work similarly to the templates in the `Collaboration
Solution Extension <../marketplace/collaboration-extension.htm>`__. You
can include any record data in your prompts using mustache syntax, such
as ``{{User Name}}``. This data can then be used in a custom prompt to
be submitted to a LLM to take advantage of generative AI for your use
case. For more details on this feature see [insert link here].
